What is Python?

    Python is a very popular general-purpose interpreted, interactive, object-oriented, and high-level programming language. Created by Guido Van Rossum during 1985-1990.

Frequently Asked Questions About Python History
    1. Who created Python?
    Python created by Guido Van Rossum, a Dutch Programmer.

    2. Why Python is called Python?
    Python does not have any relation to Snake. The name of the Python  programming language was inspired by a British Comedy Group Monty Python.

    3. When was Python's first version released?
    Python's first version was released in February 1991.

    4. What was the first version of Python?
    Python's first version was Python 0.9.0

    5. When was Python 3.0 version released?
    Python 3.0 version was released in December 2018.

Python Features

    Easy to Learn
    Dynamically Typed
    Interpreter Based
    Interactive
    Multi-paradigm
    Standard Library
    Open Source and Cross Platform
    GUI Applications
    Database Connectivity
    Extensible
    Active Developer Community

Python - Applications Areas

    Data Science
    Machine Learning
    Web Development
    Computer Vision and Image processing
    Embedded Systems and IoT
    Job Scheduling and Automation
    Desktop GUI Applications
    Console-based Applications
    CAD Applications
    Game Development

Python Reserved Words

    and	        as	        assert
    break	    class	    continue
    def	        del	        elif
    else	    except	    False
    finally	    for	        from
    global	    if	        import
    in	        is	        lambda
    None	    nonlocal	not
    or	        pass	    raise
    return	    True	    try
    while	    with	    yield

Python Lines and Indentation

    Python programming provides no braces to indicate blocks of code for class and function definitions or flow control. Blocks of code are denoted by line indentation, which is rigidly enforced.

    The number of spaces in the indentation is variable, but all statements within the block must be indented the same amount. For  example −

    if True:
        print ("True")
    else:
        print ("False")

